# Functionalities
## Power path
Either power comes from an external power supply or from the battery.  We can use a switch to power externally and a another switch to power from battery. The two switches can never be on at the same time.  So we can control these two switches from the same signal, directly to one switch and inverted to the other switch.
When the external voltage is low, the load should be powered by the battery, else externally.
When the voltage to the load is too low, both the battery switch could be opened (the switch from the external load is already open), but: the battery has a protection that prevents draining an almost empty battery.  So incorporating UVLO in the power path is not needed.
### Power path switch-over voltage
When the load is powered by the external power supply, the external voltage: 
1. must be high enough so that the battery can be charged properly.  The battery charger should be disabled as long this is not the case.
2. must at all times be higher than the battery voltage (max.4.2V), to prevent reverse current into the external power supply.
3. must be lower than the minimum guaranteed USB-voltage of 4.5V
So this leaves a 4.3V → 4.4V window for the switch-over voltage.
## Battery charger
After having tried the chinese TP5000 module, with its limited specs, let's choose the TI bq21040 as charging IC.
## Battery protection
The chinese IP3005A is not suitable because of the very large over current limit and an overvoltage lockout which doesn't work.
So we'll use western ICs again: AP9101CAK6-ANTRG1 monitor IC with DMG9926UDM-7 MOSFETs.
## Battery voltage indicator
The circuit as shown on [circuits-diy.com](circuits-diy.com/3-7v-lithium-battery-level-indicator-full-low/) is not precise and hard to quantify.  A different approach will be used instead.
The battery charge > 65% of maximum → RED off, GREEN on: 3.85V
The battery charge < 35% of maximum → RED on, GREEN off : 3.45V
For voltages in between, both LEDs can be on to some extent.
